Documentation for `tab.group`, `tab.ungroup`, and additions of `groupId` (#39145)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/api/tabs/group/index.md

---
title: tabs.group()
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/tabs/group
page-type: webextension-api-function
browser-compat: webextensions.api.tabs.group
---

{{AddonSidebar}}

Adds one or more tabs to a group or, if no group is specified, adds the tabs to a new group. All tabs in a tab group must be adjacent, and tabs are moved if needed. Any pinned tabs are unpinned before grouping.

If a call moves tabs out of tab groups and any of those tab groups become empty, the empty tab groups are removed.

> [!NOTE]
> The `tabs.group()` method is not the only way to group tabs. A tab also joins a tab group when {{WebExtAPIRef("tabs.move")}} places it between tabs that are part of a tab group.

## Syntax

```js-nolint
let grouping = browser.tabs.group(
  options    // object
)
```

### Parameters

- `options`

  - : An object containing details about the tab grouping.

    - `createProperties` {{optional_inline}}

      - : `object`. Configuration details for a new group. Cannot be used if `groupId` is specified.

>         - `windowId`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - `windowId` {{optional_inline}}
```

    - `groupId` {{optional_inline}}
      - : `integer`. The ID of the group to add the tabs to. If not specified, a new group is created.
    - `tabIds`
      - : `integer` or `array` of `integer`. The tab ID or list of tab IDs to add to the group. Must contain at least one tab ID.

### Return value

A [`Promise`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) that is fulfilled with an integer containing the `groupId` of the tab group the tabs were added to. If the `groupId` is not found, any of the `tabIds` are invalid, the `windowId` is invalid, or some other error occurs, the promise is rejected with an error message. When a validation error occurs, the tabs are not modified.

## Examples

Create two new tabs and put them in a new group.

```js
const tab1 = await browser.tabs.create({});
const tab2 = await browser.tabs.create({});
const groupId = await browser.tabs.group({
  tabIds: [tab1.id, tab2.id],
});
```

Create a new tab and add it to an existing group.

```js
const tab3 = await browser.tabs.create({});
await browser.tabs.group({
  tabIds: tab3.id,

>   groupId: groupId,

Reviewer: This `groupId` is from the previous example, which makes this example not self-contained.

Should we clarify that groupId is from the previous example?

Author: Sorry I missed that, merging and fixing the introduction.

---
title: tabs.group()
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/tabs/group
page-type: webextension-api-function
browser-compat: webextensions.api.tabs.group
---

{{AddonSidebar}}

> Adds one or more tabs to a group or, if no group is specified, adds the tabs to a new group. Any pinned tabs are unpinned before grouping. Tabs are moved so that tabs in a group are adjacent.

Author: @Rob--W 
```suggestion
Adds one or more tabs to a group or, if no group is specified, adds the tabs to a new group. All tabs in a tab group must be adjacent, and tabs are moved if needed. Any pinned tabs are unpinned before grouping.
```

> Adds one or more tabs to a group or, if no group is specified, adds the tabs to a new group. Any pinned tabs are unpinned before grouping. Tabs are moved so that tabs in a group are adjacent.

Reviewer: Suggested edit looks good.

If a call moves tabs out of tab groups and any of those tab groups become empty, the empty tab groups are removed.

> [!NOTE]

> > The `tabs.group()` method is not the only way to group tabs. A tab joins a tab group when {{WebExtAPIRef("tabs.move")}} places it between tabs that are part of a tab group.

Reviewer: Added "also" - see my similar suggested edit at "ungroup()".

```suggestion
> The `tabs.group()` method is not the only way to group tabs. A tab also joins a tab group when {{WebExtAPIRef("tabs.move")}} places it between tabs that are part of a tab group.
```

let grouping = browser.tabs.group(
  options    // object
)
```

### Parameters

- `options`

  - : An object containing details about the tab grouping.
    - `createProperties` {{optional_inline}}
      - : `object`. Configuration details for a new group. Cannot be used if `groupId` is specified.

        - `windowId`
          - : `integer`. The window of the new group. Defaults to the [current window](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/windows/getCurrent).

    - `groupId` {{optional_inline}}
      - : `integer`. The ID of the group to add the tabs to. If not specified, a new group is created.
    - `tabIds`
      - : `integer` or `array` of `integer`. The tab ID or list of tab IDs to add to the group. Must contain at least one tab ID.

### Return value

A [`Promise`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) that is fulfilled with an integer containing the `groupId` of the tab group the tabs were added to. If the `groupId` is not found, any of the `tabIds` are invalid, the `windowId` is invalid, or some other error occurs, the promise is rejected with an error message. When a validation error occurs, the tabs are not modified.

## Examples

> Add a tab to an existing group, for example, the group of the current tab:

Author: @Rob--W 
```suggestion
Create a tab and match its grouping to that of the current tab.
```

> Add a tab to an existing group, for example, the group of the current tab:

Reviewer: > @Rob--W 
> ```suggestion
> Create a tab and match its grouping to that of the current tab.
> ```

Does this sufficiently emphasize that if ungrouped, that the new tab is ungrouped too? I suppose that even if that wasn't clear, that the comment in the code sample would do that?

LGTM

```js
let [oldTab] = await browser.tabs.query({
  active: true,
  lastFocusedWindow: true,
});

let newTab = await browser.tabs.create({
  url: "https://example.com/",
  index: oldTab.index + 1,
});
if (browser.tabs.group) {
  if (oldTab.groupId !== -1) {
    await browser.tabs.group({ groupId: oldTab.groupId, tabIds: [newTab.id] });
  } else {

>     await browser.tabs.ungroup(newTab.id);

Author: ```suggestion
    // Although a new tab positioned next to an ungrouped tab is
    // already ungrouped, we call ungroup() in case this example is 
    // adopted for use with tabs that aren't adjacent. When oldTab
    // is not in a tab group, the only way to ensure that newTab isn't
    // in a tab group is by using ungroup().
    await browser.tabs.ungroup(newTab.id);
```

    - `groupId`
      - : `integer`. The ID of the group to add the tabs to. If not specified, a new group is created.
    - `tabIds`
      - : `integer` or `array` of `integer`. The tab ID or list of tab IDs to add to the group. Must contain at least one tab ID.

### Return value

A [`Promise`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) that is fulfilled with an integer containing the `groupId` of the tab group the tabs were added to. If the `groupId` is not found, any of the `tabIds` are invalid, the `windowId` is invalid, or some other error occurs, the promise is rejected with an error message. When a validation error occurs, the tabs are not modified.

## Examples

Add a tab to an existing group, for example, the group of the current tab:

```js
let [oldTab] = await browser.tabs.query({
  active: true,
  lastFocusedWindow: true,
});

let newTab = await browser.tabs.create({
  url: "https://example.com/",
  index: oldTab.index + 1,
});
if (browser.tabs.group) {
  if (oldTab.groupId !== -1) {
    await browser.tabs.group({ groupId: oldTab.groupId, tabIds: [newTab.id] });
  } else {

>     await browser.tabs.ungroup(newTab.id);

Author: @Rob--W Would it be better to put the two tabs into a new group?
```suggestion
    await browser.tabs.ungroup({ tabIds: [newTab.id, oldTab.id] });
```

Author: Or just?
```suggestion
    await browser.tabs.ungroup( [newTab.id, oldTab.id] );
```

## Syntax

```js-nolint
let grouping = browser.tabs.group(
  createProperties,    // object
  groupId,             // integer
  tabIds               // array
)
```

### Parameters

- `createProperties`
  - : `object`. Configuration details for a new group. Cannot be used if `groupId` is specified.

    - `windowId`
      - : `integer`. The window of the new group. Defaults to the current window.

- `groupId`
  - : `integer`. The ID of the group to add the tabs to. If not specified, a new group is created.
- `tabIds`
  - : `array`. The tab ID or list of tab IDs to add to the group.

### Return value

A [`Promise`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) that is fulfilled with an integer containing the `groupId` of the tab group the tabs were added to. If the `groupId` is not found or some other error occurs, the promise is rejected with an error message.

## Examples

Add two tab to a new tab group:

```js
function onAdded(groupInfo) {
  console.log(`New group ID: ${groupInfo.groupId}`);
}

function onError(error) {
  console.log(`Error: ${error}`);
}

let adding = browser.tabs.group( { tabIds: [2, 13] } );
adding.then(onAdded, onError);
```

> Add a tab to an existing group:
> 
> ```js
> function onAdded() {
>   console.log(Tab added to group);
> }
> 
> function onError(error) {
>   console.log(`Error: ${error}`);
> }
> 
> let adding = browser.tabs.group( { groupId: 3, tabIds: [2]} );
> adding.then(onAdded, onError);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a tab to an existing group, for example the group of the current tab:

```js
let [ oldTab ] = await browser.tabs.query({
  active: true,
  lastFocusedWindow: true,
});

let newTab = await browser.tabs.create({
  url: "https://example.com/",
  index: oldTab.index + 1,
});
if (browser.tabs.group) {
  if (oldTab.groupId !== -1) {
    await browser.tabs.group({ groupId: oldTab.groupId, tabIds: [newTab.id] });
  } else {
    await browser.tabs.ungroup(newTab.id);
  }
}
```
